# FAQ
---
## What platforms does Pollen support?
Pollen was tested on Windows, GX.games, & HTML5. Theoretically, it should work on Mac and Ubuntu as well, but please [report an issue](https://github.com/MorphoMonarchy/Pollen/issues/new) if not. Keep in mind that the browser versions do not support live updating, and HTML5 does not support using GM part assets as a template. However, according to my tests, everything else seems to work fine. In the future, when I have the money to upgrade my hard drive I'll test IOS and Android (since the SDK's & emulators take up too much space which I dont have), and when I'm even less broke, I'll test on consoles as well :sweat_smile:.

## What versions of GameMaker does Pollen support?
Pollen was built on and has only been tested on GameMaker 2024.13. In theory, it should be able to support some earlier versions as well, but I have not tested this. It also has not been tested in GM Beta, but I believe it should work fine there. It will probably not work on the current LTS version since there are key API changes that I use (specifically the "struct_get" functions which are "variable_struct_get" in the LTS) that are not compatible. I've thought about making a seperate version for the LTS which resolves this, but I figured it might not be worth it since GameMaker should be releasing a new LTS version relatively soon.

## What runtimes does Pollen support?
Pollen supports both the VM and YYC runtimes (though YYC has only been tested on Windows). Pollen has NOT been tested in GMRT ("new runtime"). One thing to note is that if you are using GM part assets as  templates and running on the YYC, you will likely need to uncheck "Automatically remove unused assets when compiling" under "Game Options" -> "General". Otherwise, the game will not be able to read data from the part asset, resulting in a crash.

## How much overhead does Pollen take?
Compared to using GM's particle API, Pollen will take a slight bit more overhead since it's reading and changing state in both the Pollen constructors and GM particle data. However, as long as you aren't setting all the properties of hundreds of different particle effects every frame, then it shouldn't make much of a difference. The main overhead comes from importing particles especially if you're using GM part assets as templates. So, the more particles you define in the "JSON", the slower it will be to initially load and reload those particles. Therefore, if your game requires a lot of unique particles, I recommend only including the particles you need to test via live update in the global.config_pollen_pfx array, and procedurally load your other particles as you need them (see "optimization tips" for more info). In terms of memory, I found that Pollen took up roughly 0.1 - 0.3 MB per instance (though technically Pollen.Systems could be more depending on the number of unique emitters/types you define in them). So over 1000 unique types/systems (more than any one game should need) will take up roughly 100 - 300 mb, a still negligable amount of memory in modern systems. However, if you are concerned about memory, there are a handful of functions you can use to clear unused data.

# Can I use Pollen for commercial projects?
Yes! Pollen is released under the [MIT license](https://github.com/MorphoMonarchy/Pollen/blob/master/LICENSE). This means you can use it for whatever purpose you want, including commercial projects. However, I'd very much appreciate if you give a shout out or list my name in the credits (Jack Ward), but you're under no obligation to do so.

# What if I find a bug or think you're missing a useful feature?
Please feel free to make a bug report or feature request [here](https://github.com/MorphoMonarchy/Pollen/issues). Keep in mind that I want to keep Pollen 1.0 as lightweight as possible to make it easier for forward/backward compatibility, so only bugfixes & small quality of life features will be considered for this version. However, there is a chance I make a 2.0 version that expands the functionality much more (such as adding custom emitters similar to [Pulse library](https://delfos1.itch.io/pulse)), but, at the moment, this version is only hypothetical.

